# cephgeorep
Ceph File System Remote Sync Daemon
For use with a Ceph file server to trickle files to a remote backup server, i.e. georeplicate your Ceph fs.

## Prerequisites
You must have a Ceph file system. `rsync` must be installed on both the local system and the remote backup. You must also set up passwordless SSH from your sender (local) to your
receiver (remote backup) with a public/private key pair to allow rsync to send your files without intervention. For compiling, you will also need `gcc-c++`.

## Installation Instructions
First clone the repository, then either run the automatic installer script with `sh install.sh` as root or install manually by building with `g++ -std=c++11 cephfssyncd.cpp -o cephfssyncd` and move the build output to /usr/bin/ as cephfssyncd. Place cephfssyncd.service in /etc/systemd/system/. 

## Configuration
Default config file generated by daemon: (/etc/ceph/cephfssyncd.conf)

```
SND_SYNC_DIR=                               (path to directory you want backed up)
RECV_SYNC_HOST=                             (ip address/hostname of your backup server)
RECV_SYNC_DIR=                              (path to backup directory)
LAST_RCTIME_DIR=/var/lib/ceph/cephfssync/   (path to where the last modification time is stored)
SYNC_FREQ=10                                (frequency to check directory for changes, in seconds)
IGNORE_HIDDEN=false                         (change to true to ignore files and folders starting with '.')
RCTIME_PROP_DELAY=100                       (delay between detecting change and taking snapshot*)
COPMRESSION=false                           (compresses files before sending for slow network)
LOG_LEVEL=1                                 (log output verbosity)
# 0 = minimum logging
# 1 = basic logging
# 2 = debug logging
```

\* The Ceph file system has a propagation delay for recursive ctime to make its way from the changed file to the
top level directory it's contained in. To account for this delay in deep directory trees, there is a user-defined
delay to ensure no files are missed. 

~~`Small directory tree    (0-50 total dirs):        RCTIME_PROP_DELAY=1000`~~  
~~`Medium directory tree   (51-500 total dirs):      RCTIME_PROP_DELAY=2000`~~  
~~`Large directory tree    (500-10,000 total dirs):  RCTIME_PROP_DELAY=5000`~~  
~~`Massive directory tree  (10,000+ total dirs):     RCTIME_PROP_DELAY=10000`~~  

This delay was greatly reduced in the Ceph Nautilus release, so a delay of 100ms is the new default. This was able to sync 1000 files, 1MB each, randomly placed within 3905 directories without missing one. With very large directory trees this delay may need to be increased, but only up to a few seconds rather than 10.

## Usage
Launch the daemon by running `systemctl start cephfssyncd`, or run `systemctl enable caphfssyncd` to enable launch at startup. To monitor output of daemon, run `watch -n 1 systemctl status cephfssyncd`.

## Notes
* If your backup server is down, cephfssyncd will try to launch rsync and fail, however it will retry the sync at 30 second
intervals. All new files in the server created while cephfssyncd is waiting for rsync to succeed will be synced on the next interval.  
* Files beginning with the following prefixes are ignored by the daemon:
   * `~$` - Files beginning with this are temporary backup files within Windows, which are created when a document or other file is open.
   * `.~lock.` - Files beginning with this are lock files within Linux, which prevent a file from being modified while it is open by another user. 
* If the backup directory is shared with Windows or Linux via a Samba share, files that are moved into the shared folder will not sync if their Last Modified time is earlier than the most recent sync. 

```
   ___________________  
 /o  _       ______   o\\   _____       _
|   | |  _  |  ___/     || |  __ \     (_)               
|   | |_| | | |___      || | |  | |_ __ ___   _____  ___  
|   |___  | |___  |     || | |  | | '__| \ \ / / _ \/ __|
|       | |  ___| |     || | |__| | |  | |\ V /  __/\__ \
|       |_| /_____/     || |_____/|_|  |_| \_/ \___||___/
 \o___________________o// 
