.\" (C) Copyright 2021 Josh Boudreau <jboudreau@45drives.com>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH CEPHGEOREP 1 "January 20 2021"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.

.SH NAME
cephgeorep \- an efficient unidirectional remote backup daemon for CephFS

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cephfssyncd [-c <path/to/config/file>] [-dhnqstv]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ceph File System Remote Sync Daemon
.P
For use with a distributed Ceph File System cluster to georeplicate files to a remote backup server.
This daemon takes advantage of Ceph's 
.I rctime 
directory attribute, which is the value of the highest mtime of all the files below a given directory tree. Using this attribute, it selectively recurses only into directory tree branches with modified files - instead of wasting time accessing every branch.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-c, --config <path/to/config/file>"
Pass an alternate configuration file path. This is useful for running multiple instances of
.B cephgeorep
on the same system.
Default config: /etc/ceph/cephfssyncd.conf
.IP "-d, --dry-run"
Print the total number of files and payload size that would be synced if ran without this flag.
When combined with -v, all files will also be listed.
Exits before syncing.
.IP "-h, --help"
Print the usage message and exit.
.IP "-n, --nproc <# of processes>"
Specify the number of sync processes to run in parallel, overriding the value in the configuration file.
.IP "-q, --quiet"
Set the log level to 0, muting output.
.IP "-s, --seed"
Send every file to seed the destination.
.IP "-t, --threads <# of threads>"
Specify the number of worker threads to search for files, overriding the value in the configuration file. Greatly reduces file search time.
.IP "-v, --verbose"
Set the log level to 2, showing debug log output.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The default configuration file location is /etc/cephfssyncd.conf, which can be overridden with the -c, --config option.
.P
Configuration format is 
.B "Key = value"
pairs.

.P
.I "Local Backup Settings"
.IP "Source Directory = </path/to/sync>"
The full path to the directory you want to backup.
.IP "Ignore Hidden = <true|false>"
Ignore files beginning with ".".
.IP "Ignore Windows Lock = <true|false>"
Ignore files beginning with "~$".
.IP "Ignore Vim Swap = <true|false>"
Ignore vim .swp files (.<filename>.swp, .<filename>.swpx).

.P
.I "Remote Settings"
.IP "Remote User = <user>"
The user on remote backup machine to connect as while syncing. (optional)
.IP "Remote Host = <hostname|IP address>"
The remote backup machine hostname or IP address.
.IP "Remote Directory = </path/to/remote/destination>"
The directory to place files in the remote backup machine.

.P
.I "Daemon Settings"
.IP "Exec = <rsync|scp|...>"
The program to use for syncing. To sync to s3 buckets: set this to /opt/45drives/cephgeorep/s3wrap.sh, set the flags to only the bucket name, and leave all Remote Settings fields blank.
.IP "Flags = <-a --relative|...>"
Execution flags for above program, space delimited. For proper usage with rsync, leave the default -a --relative options.
.IP "Metadata Directory = </var/lib/cephfssync/|...>"
Directory to store metadata for keeping track of file modification times.
.IP "Sync Period = <time in seconds>"
The polling period in seconds between each check for file changes. Default is 10. To push this daemon to quasi-synchronous replication, set this to 0.
.IP "Propagation Delay = <time in milliseconds>
The time in milliseconds between taking a snapshot and searching for files. This may not be needed anymore with the newest release of Ceph. Default is 100.
.IP "Processes = <# of processes>"
The number of sync processes to launch in parallel. Default is 4. This speeds up sending large batches of files.
.IP "Threads = <# of threads>"
The number of worker threads to search for files. Default is 8. For very large directory trees, increasing this number speeds up finding files.
.IP "Log Level = <0|1|2>"
The log level output. Choosing 0 mutes all output to stdout, but errors are still printed to stderr. Choosing 1 will show useful information messages, and 2 shows very verbose debug output. Default is 1.
