.\" (C) Copyright 2021 Josh Boudreau <jboudreau@45drives.com>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH CEPHGEOREP 8 "May 18 2021" "cephgeorep 1.2.11"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.

.SH NAME
cephgeorep \- an efficient unidirectional remote backup daemon for CephFS

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "cephfssyncd \fR[-c \fP" "path/to/config/file\fR] [\fP-cdhnqsStv\fR]\fP"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ceph File System Remote Sync Daemon
.P
For use with a distributed Ceph File System cluster to georeplicate files to a remote backup server.
This daemon takes advantage of Ceph's 
.I rctime 
directory attribute, which is the value of the highest mtime of all the files below a given directory tree. Using this attribute, it selectively recurses only into directory tree branches with modified files - instead of wasting time accessing every branch.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-c\fR,\fP \-\^\-config " "path/to/config/file"
Pass an alternate configuration file path. This is useful for running multiple instances of
.B cephgeorep
on the same system.
Default config: /etc/ceph/cephfssyncd.conf
.TP
.BI "\-d\fR,\fP \-\^\-dry-run"
Print the total number of files and payload size that would be synced if ran without this flag.
When combined with \fI-v\fP, all files will also be listed.
Exits before syncing.
.TP
.BI "\-h\fR,\fP \-\^\-help"
Print the usage message and exit.
.TP
.BI "\-n\fR,\fP \-\^\-nproc " "# of processes"
Specify the number of sync processes to run in parallel, overriding the value in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI "\-o\fR,\fP \-\^\-oneshot"
Manually sync changes once and exit.
.TP
.BI "\-q\fR,\fP \-\^\-quiet"
Set the log level to 0, muting output.
.TP
.BI "\-s\fR,\fP \-\^\-seed"
Send every file to seed the destination.
.TP
.BI "\-S\fR,\fP \-\^\-set-last-change"
Prime last change time to only sync changes that occur after running with this flag. Use this when you want to start using
.B cephgeorep
with an existing backup without needing to resync everything.
.TP
.BI "\-t\fR,\fP \-\^\-threads " "# of threads"
Specify the number of worker threads to search for files, overriding the value in the configuration file. Greatly reduces file search time.
.TP
.BI "\-v\fR,\fP \-\^\-verbose"
Set the log level to 2, showing debug log output.
.TP
.BI "\-V\fR,\fP \-\^\-version"
Print the release version and exit.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The default configuration file location is \fI/etc/cephfssyncd.conf\fP, which can be overridden with the 
.I -c\fR,\fP --config
option.
.P
Configuration format is 
.BI "Key \fR=\fP " value
pairs.

.P
.SS "Local Backup Settings"
.TP
.BI "Source Directory \fR=\fP " /path/to/sync
The full path to the directory you want to backup.
.TP
.BI "Ignore Hidden \fR=\fP " true\fR|\fPfalse
Ignore files beginning with ".".
.TP
.BI "Ignore Windows Lock \fR=\fP " true\fR|\fPfalse
Ignore files beginning with "~$".
.TP
.BI "Ignore Vim Swap \fR=\fP " true\fR|\fPfalse
Ignore vim .swp files (.<filename>.swp, .<filename>.swpx).

.P
.SS "Remote Settings"
.TP
.BI "Destination \fR=\fP " \fR[[\fPuser@\fR]\fPhost:\fR][\fPpath\fR]\fP
Comma or space separated list of backup destinations. If multiple destinations are defined, they are only
used as failovers - data will not be duplicated to each destination. Multiple failovers are intended to be used with multiple
gateways to a single backup storage pool. This parameter can appear multiple times if you do not want to put the list on one line.
Valid destination examples:
.IP
root@ceph-backup:/mnt/tank
.IP
ceph-backup:/mnt/tank
.IP
/mnt/tank

.P
.SS "Daemon Settings"
.TP
.BI "Exec \fR=\fP " rsync\fR|\fPscp\fR|\fP...
The program to use for syncing. To sync to s3 buckets: set this to /opt/45drives/cephgeorep/s3wrap.sh, set the flags to only the bucket name, and leave all Remote Settings fields blank.
.TP
.BI "Flags \fR=\fP " "-a --relative\fR|\fP..."
Execution flags for above program, space delimited. For proper usage with rsync, leave the default -a --relative options.
.TP
.BI "Metadata Directory \fR=\fP " /var/lib/cephfssync/\fR|\fP...
Directory to store metadata for keeping track of file modification times.
.TP
.BI "Sync Period \fR=\fP " "time in seconds"
The polling period in seconds between each check for file changes. Default is 10. To push this daemon to quasi-synchronous replication, set this to 0.
.TP
.BI "Propagation Delay \fR=\fP " "time in milliseconds"
The time in milliseconds between taking a snapshot and searching for files. This may not be needed anymore with the newest release of Ceph. Default is 100.
.TP
.BI "Processes \fR=\fP " "# of processes"
The number of sync processes to launch in parallel. Default is 4. This speeds up sending large batches of files.
.TP
.BI "Threads \fR=\fP " "# of threads"
The number of worker threads to search for files. Default is 8. For very large directory trees, increasing this number speeds up finding files.
.TP
.BI "Log Level \fR=\fP " "0\fR|\fP1\fR|\fP2"
The log level output. Choosing 0 mutes all output to stdout, but errors are still printed to stderr. Choosing 1 will show useful information messages, and 2 shows very verbose debug output. Default is 1.

.SS "Deprecated Settings"
These settings are still valid, but a warning will be given while using them. The following remote settings cannot be used if
.I Destination
is set.
.TP
.BI "Remote User \fR=\fP " "user"
The user on remote backup machine to connect as while syncing. (optional)
.TP
.BI "Remote Host \fR=\fP " "hostname\fR|\fPIP address"
The remote backup machine hostname or IP address.
.TP
.BI "Remote Directory \fR=\fP " "/path/to/remote/destination"
The directory to place files in the remote backup machine.

.SH AUTHOR
.B cephgeorep
was created by \fBJosh Boudreau\fP <\fIjboudreau@45drives.com\fP> and is maintained by the \fBResearch and Development\fP team at \fB45Drives\fP.
